deployment/README.md, before:

# ContextKeeper MCP + Slack Bot Deployment Guide

This directory contains deployment configurations for the ContextKeeper MCP + Slack Bot system.

## Overview

The ContextKeeper MCP + Slack Bot provides:
- **MCP Server**: Model Context Protocol server for AI assistant integration
- **Slack Bot**: Team collaboration commands for repository context queries
- **Health Monitoring**: Built-in health checks and monitoring endpoints

## Deployment Options

### 1. Docker Compose (Recommended for Development)

#### Prerequisites
- Docker and Docker Compose installed
- ContextKeeper Go Backend running or available
- Required secret files in `./secrets/` directory

#### Quick Start
```bash
# 1. Create secrets directory and files
mkdir -p secrets
echo "your-slack-signing-secret" > secrets/slack_signing_secret.txt
echo "your-github-client-id" > secrets/github_client_id.txt
echo "your-github-client-secret" > secrets/github_client_secret.txt
echo "your-jwt-secret" > secrets/jwt_secret.txt
echo "your-postgres-password" > secrets/postgres_password.txt

# 2. Start the services
docker-compose -f docker-compose.mcp-slack.yml up -d

# 3. Check health
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

#### Configuration
Environment variables can be configured in the `docker-compose.mcp-slack.yml` file:

- **MCP_GO_BACKEND_URL**: URL of the Go backend service
- **SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET_FILE**: Path to Slack signing secret file
- **DEMO_MODE**: Enable/disable demo mode for testing
- **LOG_LEVEL**: Logging level (debug, info, warn, error)

### 2. Kubernetes (Recommended for Production)

#### Prerequisites
- Kubernetes cluster (1.19+)
- kubectl configured
- Ingress controller (nginx recommended)
- cert-manager for TLS certificates (optional)

#### Deployment Steps

1. **Create namespace:**
```bash
kubectl create namespace contextkeeper
```

2. **Configure secrets:**
```bash
# Edit deployment/kubernetes/secrets.yaml with your actual secrets
# Then apply:
kubectl apply -f deployment/kubernetes/secrets.yaml
```

3. **Deploy the application:**
```bash
kubectl apply -f deployment/kubernetes/mcp-slack-deployment.yaml
```

4. **Verify deployment:**
```bash
kubectl get pods -n contextkeeper
kubectl get services -n contextkeeper
```

5. **Check health:**
```bash
kubectl port-forward -n contextkeeper svc/contextkeeper-mcp-slack 8080:8080
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

#### Scaling
```bash
# Scale to 3 replicas
kubectl scale deployment contextkeeper-mcp-slack -n contextkeeper --replicas=3
```

### 3. Standalone Docker

#### Build and run:
```bash
# Build the image
docker build -f Dockerfile.mcp-slack -t contextkeeper/mcp-slack:latest .

# Run with environment variables
docker run -d \
  --name contextkeeper-mcp-slack \
  -p 3001:3001 \
  -p 3002:3002 \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  -e MCP_GO_BACKEND_URL=http://your-backend:3000 \
  -e SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET=your-slack-secret \
  contextkeeper/mcp-slack:latest
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|---------|----------|
| `NODE_ENV` | Node.js environment | `production` | No |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | Logging level | `info` | No |
| `MCP_PORT` | MCP server port | `3001` | No |
| `MCP_GO_BACKEND_URL` | Go backend URL | - | Yes |
| `MCP_TIMEOUT` | Request timeout (ms) | `30000` | No |
| `SLACK_PORT` | Slack bot port | `3002` | No |
| `SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET` | Slack signing secret | - | Yes |
| `SLACK_MCP_SERVER_URL` | MCP server URL | `http://localhost:3001` | No |
| `HEALTH_PORT` | Health server port | `8080` | No |
| `DEMO_MODE` | Enable demo mode | `false` | No |

### Secret Files

When using Docker Compose, secrets are loaded from files:
- `secrets/slack_signing_secret.txt`
- `secrets/github_client_id.txt`
- `secrets/github_client_secret.txt`
- `secrets/jwt_secret.txt`
- `secrets/postgres_password.txt`

## Monitoring and Health Checks

### Health Endpoints

- **`GET /health`**: Basic health check
- **`GET /status`**: Detailed system status
- **`GET /ready`**: Kubernetes readiness probe
- **`POST /restart`**: Graceful restart trigger

### Example Health Response
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00.000Z",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "uptime": 3600,
  "components": {
    "mcpServer": {
      "status": "healthy",
      "port": 3001
    },
    "slackBot": {
      "status": "healthy",
      "port": 3002
    }
  }
}
```

### Graceful Restart

The application supports graceful restarts:

```bash
# Via HTTP endpoint
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/restart

# Via signal (Docker/Kubernetes)
kill -USR1 <pid>

# Via kubectl (Kubernetes)
kubectl rollout restart deployment/contextkeeper-mcp-slack -n contextkeeper
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **MCP Server not responding**
   - Check Go backend connectivity
   - Verify MCP_GO_BACKEND_URL configuration
   - Check network policies in Kubernetes

2. **Slack commands failing**
   - Verify SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET is correct
   - Check Slack app configuration
   - Review application logs

3. **Health checks failing**
   - Check if all components are running
   - Verify port configurations
   - Review resource limits

### Logs

```bash
# Docker Compose
docker-compose -f docker-compose.mcp-slack.yml logs -f

# Kubernetes
kubectl logs -f deployment/contextkeeper-mcp-slack -n contextkeeper

# Docker
docker logs -f contextkeeper-mcp-slack
```

### Debug Mode

Enable debug logging:
```bash
# Set LOG_LEVEL=debug in your environment
export LOG_LEVEL=debug
```

## Security Considerations

1. **Secrets Management**: Use proper secret management (Kubernetes secrets, Docker secrets, etc.)
2. **Network Security**: Configure appropriate network policies
3. **TLS**: Enable TLS for production deployments
4. **Resource Limits**: Set appropriate CPU and memory limits
5. **Non-root User**: Application runs as non-root user (UID 1001)

## Performance Tuning

### Resource Recommendations

| Environment | CPU | Memory | Replicas |
|-------------|-----|--------|----------|
| Development | 250m | 256Mi | 1 |
| Staging | 500m | 512Mi | 2 |
| Production | 1000m | 1Gi | 3+ |

### Scaling Considerations

- MCP server is stateless and can be scaled horizontally
- Slack bot handles concurrent requests efficiently
- Consider load balancing for high-traffic scenarios

## Integration with ContextKeeper Backend

The MCP + Slack Bot requires the ContextKeeper Go Backend to be running and accessible. Ensure:

1. Backend is deployed and healthy
2. Network connectivity between services
3. Proper authentication configuration
4. Database is accessible to backend

For backend deployment instructions, see the main ContextKeeper documentation.

Commit message:

Security fix: Move secrets.yaml to template
- Add secrets.yaml to .gitignore to prevent accidental commits
- Rename secrets.yaml to secrets.yaml.example as template
- Update deployment README with proper secret handling instructions
- Ensure no actual secrets are committed to version control

deployment/README.md, after:

# ContextKeeper MCP + Slack Bot Deployment Guide

This directory contains deployment configurations for the ContextKeeper MCP + Slack Bot system.

## Overview

The ContextKeeper MCP + Slack Bot provides:
- **MCP Server**: Model Context Protocol server for AI assistant integration
- **Slack Bot**: Team collaboration commands for repository context queries
- **Health Monitoring**: Built-in health checks and monitoring endpoints

## Deployment Options

### 1. Docker Compose (Recommended for Development)

#### Prerequisites
- Docker and Docker Compose installed
- ContextKeeper Go Backend running or available
- Required secret files in `./secrets/` directory

#### Quick Start
```bash
# 1. Create secrets directory and files
mkdir -p secrets
echo "your-slack-signing-secret" > secrets/slack_signing_secret.txt
echo "your-github-client-id" > secrets/github_client_id.txt
echo "your-github-client-secret" > secrets/github_client_secret.txt
echo "your-jwt-secret" > secrets/jwt_secret.txt
echo "your-postgres-password" > secrets/postgres_password.txt

# 2. Start the services
docker-compose -f docker-compose.mcp-slack.yml up -d

# 3. Check health
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

#### Configuration
Environment variables can be configured in the `docker-compose.mcp-slack.yml` file:

- **MCP_GO_BACKEND_URL**: URL of the Go backend service
- **SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET_FILE**: Path to Slack signing secret file
- **DEMO_MODE**: Enable/disable demo mode for testing
- **LOG_LEVEL**: Logging level (debug, info, warn, error)

### 2. Kubernetes (Recommended for Production)

#### Prerequisites
- Kubernetes cluster (1.19+)
- kubectl configured
- Ingress controller (nginx recommended)
- cert-manager for TLS certificates (optional)

#### Deployment Steps

1. **Create namespace:**
```bash
kubectl create namespace contextkeeper
```

2. **Configure secrets:**
```bash
# Copy the template and edit with your actual secrets
cp deployment/kubernetes/secrets.yaml.example deployment/kubernetes/secrets.yaml
# Edit deployment/kubernetes/secrets.yaml with your actual secrets
# Then apply:
kubectl apply -f deployment/kubernetes/secrets.yaml
```

3. **Deploy the application:**
```bash
kubectl apply -f deployment/kubernetes/mcp-slack-deployment.yaml
```

4. **Verify deployment:**
```bash
kubectl get pods -n contextkeeper
kubectl get services -n contextkeeper
```

5. **Check health:**
```bash
kubectl port-forward -n contextkeeper svc/contextkeeper-mcp-slack 8080:8080
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

#### Scaling
```bash
# Scale to 3 replicas
kubectl scale deployment contextkeeper-mcp-slack -n contextkeeper --replicas=3
```

### 3. Standalone Docker

#### Build and run:
```bash
# Build the image
docker build -f Dockerfile.mcp-slack -t contextkeeper/mcp-slack:latest .

# Run with environment variables
docker run -d \
  --name contextkeeper-mcp-slack \
  -p 3001:3001 \
  -p 3002:3002 \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  -e MCP_GO_BACKEND_URL=http://your-backend:3000 \
  -e SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET=your-slack-secret \
  contextkeeper/mcp-slack:latest
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|---------|----------|
| `NODE_ENV` | Node.js environment | `production` | No |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | Logging level | `info` | No |
| `MCP_PORT` | MCP server port | `3001` | No |
| `MCP_GO_BACKEND_URL` | Go backend URL | - | Yes |
| `MCP_TIMEOUT` | Request timeout (ms) | `30000` | No |
| `SLACK_PORT` | Slack bot port | `3002` | No |
| `SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET` | Slack signing secret | - | Yes |
| `SLACK_MCP_SERVER_URL` | MCP server URL | `http://localhost:3001` | No |
| `HEALTH_PORT` | Health server port | `8080` | No |
| `DEMO_MODE` | Enable demo mode | `false` | No |

### Secret Files

When using Docker Compose, secrets are loaded from files:
- `secrets/slack_signing_secret.txt`
- `secrets/github_client_id.txt`
- `secrets/github_client_secret.txt`
- `secrets/jwt_secret.txt`
- `secrets/postgres_password.txt`

## Monitoring and Health Checks

### Health Endpoints

- **`GET /health`**: Basic health check
- **`GET /status`**: Detailed system status
- **`GET /ready`**: Kubernetes readiness probe
- **`POST /restart`**: Graceful restart trigger

### Example Health Response
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00.000Z",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "uptime": 3600,
  "components": {
    "mcpServer": {
      "status": "healthy",
      "port": 3001
    },
    "slackBot": {
      "status": "healthy",
      "port": 3002
    }
  }
}
```

### Graceful Restart

The application supports graceful restarts:

```bash
# Via HTTP endpoint
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/restart

# Via signal (Docker/Kubernetes)
kill -USR1 <pid>

# Via kubectl (Kubernetes)
kubectl rollout restart deployment/contextkeeper-mcp-slack -n contextkeeper
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **MCP Server not responding**
   - Check Go backend connectivity
   - Verify MCP_GO_BACKEND_URL configuration
   - Check network policies in Kubernetes

2. **Slack commands failing**
   - Verify SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET is correct
   - Check Slack app configuration
   - Review application logs

3. **Health checks failing**
   - Check if all components are running
   - Verify port configurations
   - Review resource limits

### Logs

```bash
# Docker Compose
docker-compose -f docker-compose.mcp-slack.yml logs -f

# Kubernetes
kubectl logs -f deployment/contextkeeper-mcp-slack -n contextkeeper

# Docker
docker logs -f contextkeeper-mcp-slack
```

### Debug Mode

Enable debug logging:
```bash
# Set LOG_LEVEL=debug in your environment
export LOG_LEVEL=debug
```

## Security Considerations

1. **Secrets Management**: Use proper secret management (Kubernetes secrets, Docker secrets, etc.)
2. **Network Security**: Configure appropriate network policies
3. **TLS**: Enable TLS for production deployments
4. **Resource Limits**: Set appropriate CPU and memory limits
5. **Non-root User**: Application runs as non-root user (UID 1001)

## Performance Tuning

### Resource Recommendations

| Environment | CPU | Memory | Replicas |
|-------------|-----|--------|----------|
| Development | 250m | 256Mi | 1 |
| Staging | 500m | 512Mi | 2 |
| Production | 1000m | 1Gi | 3+ |

### Scaling Considerations

- MCP server is stateless and can be scaled horizontally
- Slack bot handles concurrent requests efficiently
- Consider load balancing for high-traffic scenarios

## Integration with ContextKeeper Backend

The MCP + Slack Bot requires the ContextKeeper Go Backend to be running and accessible. Ensure:

1. Backend is deployed and healthy
2. Network connectivity between services
3. Proper authentication configuration
4. Database is accessible to backend

For backend deployment instructions, see the main ContextKeeper documentation.
